Hi guys.
In this lab we're going to talk about AWS Lambda. AWS Lambda is a compute service that allows you
to run code as functions.
So what is a function where you create a function in AWS Lambda.
And it basically incorporates some configuration and then a piece of code and then you can run that
code.
Now it's a serverless technology so that means there's no service to manage.
You literally just create your code add it to a function and then that function can be run and it can
be run in response to certain triggers.
And this diagram which in no means is supposed to represent any kind of real solution.
It's just something I threw together to try and give you an idea of the kinds of things you can do with
Lambda.
For instance you might have users who are using a REST API to upload some data or modify some data using
API Gateway then API Gateway can integrate with Lambda and execute that information so it can take those
modification requests and execute them perhaps to update a DynamoDB table and it gives you the
chance to have your own custom code to manipulate that data in some way you could then have another
Lambda function that polls that dynamoDB database and when it finds some changes in that database
it has its own custom code which then writes that data to a bucket.
Again it might manipulate that data in some way.
For instance it might add additional metadata to the object before it's stored in S3.
Similarly you can have AWS Lambda writing events to CloudWatch Logs and you can also have cloud
watch events.
Then sending a trigger to an AWS Lambda function which then might send out a notification to
someone using SNS.
So lots and lots of things you can do here.
And it actually integrates with a lot of different AWS services.
Now the best way to learn this is to go over to the console and what we're going to do is we're going
to try very very simple function in this lab which is just creating a simple Hello World function that
writes an event to CloudWatch Logs.
So very simple but we'll just get familiar with the interface. So here I am in AWS Lambda.
You can find Lambda and compute right here and what we're going to do is just create a function and
you'll see that there's a few options here so you can offer from scratch you can use a blueprint and
there's lots of blueprints here.
So you might want to go in here and search for instance for S3 and just hit enter and then you get a
few options where you've got some pre configured blueprints that allow you to do certain things of S3
or you might look for Kinesis and again there's a few blueprints and there for Kinesis. Similarly you
can also browse the service application repository and you'll find blueprints here which users have
uploaded to AWS. What we're going to do is just do the author from scratch here and we're actually going
to follow through and do exactly what they say here start with a simple hello world example and we're
just going to call it my function and we're going to leave all these parameters as they are now for
runtime.
You'll see here that you can use quite a few different languages and it's key for the exam to know which
languages are supported.
So here you've got .net,
Go, java,
NodeJS, Python, and Ruby.
And then you got various different versions.
You can also then choose different execution role. So you can configure which IAM roles are used to run
your functions.
And what we're gonna do here is we're just going to leave it.
And what Lambda will do is it will actually create the role for us.
So that's all we need to do.
Let's we just put in the name and click right function and it's usually quite quick to create your function
and then you end up on this page and what we can see here essentially you've got the actual function
itself and if you click on the function you'll then find that you can see the code down here.
It's also added CloudWatch Logs.
So it's able now to to log information to CloudWatch Logs and you can see some information about the
ARNs that it's actually going to log events to and then on the left here you have triggers.
A trigger is a way of invoking a Lambda function.
And as you can see there's lots of different AWS services that you can use with Lambda.
And so there are two ways that these work. Either Lambda polls the service or the service polls Lambda.
So either a kind of push or pull and we'll talk about the differences and which services work which way
round as we get further into the labs in this section.
And you also see there's some partner event sources here.
And these are powered by Amazon event bridge.
So there's some third party options here as well.
In this case we don't need to add anything.
If you then click my function you can come down here and see the code and you can see which runtime
is being used.
And as a couple of options here you can edit in line or you can go and upload a zip file or you can
even choose to pull a zip file from s free.
So a few different ways you can enter your code.
We then have environment variables tags.
We can see the execution role that's being configured in this case is actually created a role in IAM
for us.
And then under basic settings you can configure the resources that are allocated to your function and
you do that in terms of memory.
And then the CPU is added proportional to the amount of memory that you allocate.
And this goes up in 64 megabyte increments.
Right the way up to three thousand eight megabytes. We can leave this down at the minimum.
You then have a timeout.
And by default it's three seconds.
That means that your function won't run more than three seconds.
You can update this to nine hundred or fifteen minutes and we're just going to leave it at the default.
So let's just zero that out and put this back to three.
You can also connect to your functions to resources inside your VPC and if you do that then you can
add subnets and security groups to the configuration.
We don't need to do that now concurrency is something which can come up in the exam.
What this means is you can have concurrent executions of your function running so multiple executions
of your function running in running at any one time.
And if you do that you haven't have 1000 concurrency limit in your account.
And then you also are able to specify within a function that it can only run for instance two concurrent
executions.
So this is a thing that you might want to use if you need to limit the scalability of your function
so we don't need to change anything else what we can do now is go configure test events and by default
it comes up with this hello world.
We just need to give it a name so let's just give it hello world and we can click Create and we can
click on Save and so what you can do is you can have up to 10 test events so you can configure different
types of tests and you can go through this dropdown box
go through this dropdown box and find lots of templates here that you could use which have some code
already in there for testing out certain functions so let's click cancel on there and let's just click
test and so it says it succeeded and we can see a.
The details here with a status code we can see a summary that tells us some information about you know
what's being billed so you actually get billed for the amount of time that the Lambda function is running
and the amount of memory that's been allocated to the function.
You can then see some information in the log output of what exactly has been written to CloudWatch
Logs and if you come down to monitoring you can then see some more information on the functions if we
hit test a few times
we should then get a bit more data turning up.
We can also scroll down here and have a look at what is being logged into CloudWatch Logs and it shows
us the recent invocations and the most expensive invocations in gigabytes seconds
so that means the amount of memory and the amount of seconds that are being billed if we scroll up a
little bit here we can click this button that says you in CloudWatch Logs and this takes us straight
into cloud watch and it takes us into logs.
Now we could find that just by clicking on logs here and then choose the name of your function and then
you can go into the log stream and you can see some information.
So each invocation will have a start.
It then has an end and then it has a report
and these can be obviously more descriptive depending on what you're writing in CloudWatch Logs. So
that's a really basic overview of Lambda as you can see from this diagram here there's tons you
can do with it.
And we're going to run through a couple of examples in this section.
But before we do that in the next lab I want to talk about some of the architectural considerations
between using Lambda vs. other technologies in the compute area such as ECS and EC2.